[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>MARCO VIGATO: What really
prompted me on this search
for Atlantis was starting
with the evidence of it,
or the physical evidence.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: We
forget, it's not just
about a lost continent of
mythological proportions.
It's about us.
>>MARCO: These Atlanteans
were human divine hybrids.
They had a physical body, but
it was possessed, divine, highly
spiritual souls.
If we only stick to the
literal interpretation,
we are never going to
really get to the core
of the esoteric meaning
of the spiritual truths
that these people tried
to communicate to us.
Yeah, it's a sort
of a catastrophobia.
That's a term we--
>>REGINA: Yes, catastrophobia.
>>MARCO: I do believe that the
pyramid might originally have
had some functional purpose.
>>REGINA: Which of the places
you've been to blew your mind
and was far more than you ever
expected when you went there?
[WHOOSH]
Atlantis has captured the
modern imagination for millennia
now, beginning with
accounts from Plato.
Today, far more evidence
for this lost civilization
is available than back then.
When placed alongside
esoteric accounts,
we begin to piece together
what life on that magnificent
continent may have been like.
Toward that end, Marco
Vigato has dedicated 15 years
to documenting the evidence,
and he's here with us today.
And welcome, Marco.
>>MARCO: Thank you
very much, Regina.
It's a pleasure.
>>REGINA: It's the
first time we've met.
Yeah, this is wonderful.
>>MARCO: It's a
pleasure being here.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
What's wonderful
about what you've
done here with your book--
you're a very good writer,
wonderful research,
amazing pictures.
You have put your body all
over the world in search
of this story, but you
also do put together some
of the esoteric elements of it.
I would like you--
before we even
get going to lay
the framework of why
your deep curiosity
about Atlantis
and how these two sides
of you come together.
>>MARCO: Yeah, I
think there are always
two sides to the Atlantis story.
On the one hand, you have the
scientific Atlantis, the search
for the physical
evidence of Atlantis,
but then on the
other hand, you also
have the esoteric Atlantis,
that of the esoteric tradition.
And for me, these
two sides, they
were always coexisted, like
living next to each other.
What really prompted me
on the search for Atlantis
was starting with
the evidence of it
or the physical evidence,
of visiting, as you say,
hundreds of archeological
sites around the world.
I started getting the
picture that the way we
are told the history, the
evolution of civilization
was fundamentally flawed.
There was a missing episode
in our past in, our history,
and that's how we
made the connection
with these esoteric
traditions of Atlantis.
I really came to the conclusion
that Atlantis was really
the missing piece
that could make sense
of all these inexplicable,
unexplained structures
and advanced science that
you find in ancient times
at these archeological sites.
>>REGINA: And similar symbolism,
similar artwork but in parts
of the world that
theoretically had no connection
with one another at the
time, but in fact, all
had a connection with
one big item sitting
right in the midst of all of
these different continents
and also cultures.
And it's true.
Everyone was left
scratching their head.
How did that thing
in the Yucatan
end up with the
exact same symbol
we saw on that piece
in Ireland for example?
>>MARCO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So Atlantis is the piece?
>>MARCO: Absolutely, absolutely.
>>REGINA: The missing piece?
>>MARCO: I think
this is something
that is largely missing in our
modern scientific worldview.
I think there is a strong
push towards specialization,
and we have specialists in so
many different fields, which
are--
it's a great thing
in many aspects,
but in a field like the study
of our past, our history,
I think one needs to
also piece together
all these different pieces.
One needs to take a
much more holistic view
because otherwise, one
runs the risk of not seeing
the forest for the trees--
>>REGINA: That's true,
and I noticed this.
I've interviewed quite
a few people that
look at the
archeological evidence
and have devoted decades
of their life to doing so,
but what I'm also finding
is I interview other people
who, for example, in their
regression practices,
their hypnotherapy practices
have people suddenly popping
through and talking
about a time that they
identify as Atlantis
and technology
they were using in the day.
Now, this, there's a lot
of this out there now.
It's not uncommon
for this to pop up
in any random housewife's
regression right?
And when I say housewife, I mean
someone you would kind of least
expect to be pondering the theme
when you've got a bunch of kids
around.
So that's common now.
To me, the story of our
past, because it's about us,
we forget, it's not just
about a lost continent
of mythological proportions.
It's about us.
That's where the story
is getting interesting,
and you and I are going to
have a story taking both
of these elements into account.
So first of all, you
live in Mexico City now,
but your background, you
were in Harvard Business
School at one point.
So people say,
how did you end up
from there to studying Atlantis?
>>MARCO: Yeah, I
think I've always
had this passion for ancient
civilizations since a very
early age, visiting
archeological sites
throughout much of
Europe, the Middle East,
so I've always have
had that to the side
and more recently, particularly
also after I moved to Mexico,
started getting very
interested in the archeology
of Mesoamerica, Central
America, South America
as well within many of the
archeological sites there.
>>REGINA: That's
really what started
piquing your curiosity even
more about Atlantis, right?
>>MARCO: Yes, yes, I think
that curiosity about Atlantis
started also earlier,
but that gave me
the opportunity of really
trying to go on the field,
looking for some of the evidence
like the physical evidence
for that.
>>REGINA: And you're
originally from Italy?
>>MARCO: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: Where?
>>MARCO: From Milan.
>>REGINA: From Milan,
OK, wonderful city.
I love the Duomo.
Of course, everybody
loves the Duomo there.
OK, so first of all, let's begin
the story with the peopling.
Let's assume that
Atlantis exists, existed,
and is now under the sea.
You have maps of what happened
during the various phases
of Atlantis, up through
its final destruction.
And in these maps, you'll see
how far North Atlantis reached.
To me, what's
always been curious
about that was the nature of the
beings or humans that occupied
that land at that time.
It was very different reality.
So explain to us
your understanding
into the Hyperborean
story as well of
the people that were
incarnating to that continent,
the upper part of that
continent in particular,
the northern parts.
>>MARCO: Yeah, absolutely.
So you have to
think about Atlantis
as a huge continental
landmass that
stretched across much of
the Atlantic Ocean or even
the North Atlantic Ocean.
So it would have had a very
broad variety of climates
and ethnicities as well
as different people that
inhabited Atlantis.
Now, something that is suggested
both by the esoteric tradition
as well as by some of the
latest anthropological
and scientific evidence
is that modern humans
or what we consider as
anatomically modern humans may
have first appeared on a now
sunken mid-Atlantic landmass.
So Atlantis is really
in a way the place
of origin of all of mankind.
It's the first
place on Earth where
if you believe in the accounts
of the esoteric traditions,
some higher spiritual beings
incarnating by taking bodily
form on Atlantis,
and this is what
also prompted the
cycle of physical,
as well as mental and
spiritual evolution of mankind,
eventually giving rise
to our modern humanity.
So I really believe and that's
what it suggests in the book
that Atlantis was a true
cradle of the human race.
And from there, humanity spread
to all these other continents.
>>REGINA: Yes, and our audience,
a lot of our audience are
versed in different aspects
of Atlantean information,
a knowledge of Atlantis, from
different traditions but also
are versed, in as much as
anyone knows, right, in Lemuria,
which was now--
at one time, it was thought
everything was sequential.
Now, it's thought to
believe that Lemuria
and the people there who
you say in early Atlantis
were a little less
substantial in nature.
We're going to get to that.
The same thing
was going on there
as many accounts say that
you had them existing
simultaneously or concurrently.
So here you have
people that you say
were advanced in their knowledge
and understanding, that
were insubstantial.
When now, what do you
mean by that in the book
when you say insubstantial?
>>MARCO: Yeah, I think there is
a lot in the esoteric tradition
about the idea that some
spiritual beings or entities
incarnated on Earth.
They took on a bodily form.
You can call these
entities however
you want as an advanced soul.
It's a multidimensional being,
but there is this very strong
suggestion, this is
something that we
find since the earliest times.
So even in Plato's
account of Atlantis,
it talks about this incarnation
of a divine principle.
So from the very
beginning, these
Atlanteans who were sort
of human-divine beings,
human-divine hybrids in a way.
They had a physical body,
but it was possessed,
divine highly spiritual souls.
This is a key part of
the Atlantis narrative.
>>REGINA: Yes, a
key part, I mean,
that's a critical
part for us today.
We are the progeny
of that, and this
is what you call the conflicts
we have inside that are
called having a dual nature.
You can really go
right back to that time
where that new kind of hybrid
being was created of sorts.
>>MARCO: And I think it's always
a cyclical repetition in a way,
in the same way
as Plato suggests
that the original Atlanteans
were these semi-divine beings.
They were still
very much attached
to their spiritual
roots, so then
what happened then,
what eventually
led to Atlantis' downfall
was a fall into matter,
fall into materialism, which
is very similar to what
is happening today to
our own civilization,
to our own society.
We're losing sight of
our spiritual origin.
So we're falling into
this materialism,
like the cult of science
in a certain way.
And that's one of
the reasons if not
the main reasons why the
Atlantis story resonates so
much with our modern audiences.
>>REGINA: I agree with you.
There's this deep
curiosity we have.
In fact, I think
at Gaia, whenever
they do research and kind
of look at what people
are interested in, Atlantis
comes out almost number one
most of the time.
It's way at the top of
our audience interest.
Why is that, right?
Well, perhaps, it's because
many of the people who
are watching that,
are researching and writing
were there in the day.
If you look at that,
where souls continue
on their own cycles of
learning, and reincarnation,
and so forth, it
would make sense
that we'd have an intense
curiosity about Atlantis
but also something else, an
intense fear and propagation
of the story of mass extinction.
>>MARCO: Yeah, yeah, it's
a sort of catastrophobia.
That's a term--
>>REGINA: Yes, catastrophobia.
>>MARCO: --which we find.
And I think as we say, there
are many different explanations
for that.
One possibility is
that we still keep
a sort of genetic memory
in a way of these times,
so it's part of us.
As we, our ancestors,
at least, they
live through all these
events, and right now,
because the circumstances,
you can call them
the cosmic cycles,
or the point where
we are in the path of human
evolution sort of mirrors
the circumstances that
existed back then.
We're forcing a way
to relive all of that
or that triggers an
activation in a way
of these genetic memories.
On the other hand, there's
also the very strong suggestion
in many traditions that or
a belief in reincarnation
that souls that
lived at that time
are reincarnating again today.
So that makes me believe that
in a way, our civilization,
we're at the place, at
the time in history when
we are repeating many
of the events that
occurred in the Atlantean past.
>>REGINA: I'm on
the same page as you
OK so as we tell this story, I
think let's begin first with,
as you said, you
had these beings.
Let's talk about
the Hyperboreans
and who they were,
what they were, what
the nature of the beings were.
>>MARCO: Well, in the
esoteric tradition, going back
to theosophy, the
Hyperboreans were
considered to be the
first human race in a way.
So theosophy had this system,
this very complex system
of multiple different
human race and--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MARCO: --and have races, so--
>>REGINA: Races and--
>>MARCO: Right.
>>REGINA: Yes, uh-huh.
>>MARCO: Right, so the
Hyperboreans were really
the first.
There were still
a spiritual race,
meaning they did not
have a bodily form,
a body necessarily.
They would be identified
as purely spiritual souls
or multidimensional
beings, and according
to the esoteric
tradition, they settled
in a now lost northern land
that was called Hyperborea.
Now, it is particularly
interesting also
for the Atlantis story because
there is actually a possibility
that this Hyperborea later
became Atlantis or was
in a way, a northern Atlantis
where these incarnation first
took place.
And then because of geological
upheavals, that originally
northern polar
land was displaced
towards the mid-Atlantic Ocean.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
I love how clear
you are in your
articulation of this
because most people
don't go this far on it.
You stick to there's this
landmass, and this evidence,
and there was carving over here.
I love what you do.
So taking that
story forward, you
had then an embodiment,
as it was called,
an embodiment into human form.
What became the
human being, the Homo
sapiens, Homo sapiens sapiens?
Now, one account of that
is that those beings,
those original spiritual beings
were from, what you would call,
a higher or less dense
dimension of Earth itself,
coming into this lower
dimension or this physical third
dimension of Earth.
Edgar Cayce talks about
the various reasons.
Everybody has their reasons
for why these beings did it.
Some said it was adventure.
It was simply to look into
something, to experience
the senses for the first time.
So we can speculate as to
why they chose to do it,
but they chose to do it.
So they came to
choose to be part
of this incredibly diverse,
beautiful, physical creation,
maybe not fully understanding
the implications.
[LAUGHS]
>>MARCO: Yeah,
yeah, and you have
to ask yourself the
question, why it happened
at that specific time, right.
And I think the answer is
because it was at that time
that a bodily form
became available
for these spiritual beings
to incarnate and take
on that bodily form.
So in a way, I think the
theory of evolution, this idea
that our bodies, our
like bodily form evolved
throughout millions
of millions of year
is fundamentally correct.
What these forget,
however, is that part
of the process of spiritual
evolution as well.
What is it that really
triggered civilization?
What makes us human?
It's not necessarily
just our bodies.
It's our mind, our
soul as well, and these
is what came from
these, and according
to the esoteric tradition,
we're essentially
spiritual beings,
multidimensional beings that
guided in a way also the process
of our physical evolution.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And so now we have
physical beings
that are embodying these
souls with advanced knowledge.
But now you're down into a
complex of time, gravity,
survival, even
survival, and wherever
that part came in may not
have been the immediate part,
but the reality is ultimately,
the human, the physical reality
here has a time stamp on it.
These other beings
did not have that.
These beings were able
to live because they
were nonphysical for vast,
vast expanses of time.
So now you have
these two together.
In this Northern
part of Atlantis,
what happened that lasted for
many, many, many thousands
of years?
What happened that
you can understand
from archeological
evidence that created
the collapse of the first
upper part of Atlantis?
>>MARCO: Well, as you see, there
were like spiritual root causes
that had to do with the fact
that the primeval Atlanteans
were dual beings.
They had this spiritual and
this physical component,
so even Plato himself
suggested that the cause
of the decadence of Atlantis
was a fall into materialism.
In the end, the physical
aspect of these beings
took the upper
hand, and this is--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>MARCO: --what caused
ultimately their downfall.
Now, from a more like
archeological and geophysical
point of view,
around that time, we
have the first
Atlantean cataclysms.
We're talking about the time
around 35,000 years ago.
This is confirmed by a number
of different sources, a number
of different accounts
like Kingsley's
ancient chronologies, as well
as suggested it was at that time
that a major terrestrial
upheaval occurred,
which was identified for
instance in Babylonian accounts
with the first Great Flood,
the first deluge, which
caused the downfall of
the first Atlantean empire
and trigger a new age
or a new time period
in the history of the world,
which was the second Atlantean
empire.
>>REGINA: Which there
was foreknowledge of.
Again, these beings
had foreknowledge
or had the capacities for even
telepathy and for precognizance
and so forth.
So there were those
who left, right?
>>MARCO: Yeah, absolutely.
>>REGINA: They left, and they
took that knowledge with them.
So not all was lost just
because the landmass went down.
So let's talk about
that for a moment,
and I just want
to say one thing.
Even though the material
animalistic part of the mind
took over for its own
survival and started
blunting the effect and the
information coming from spirit,
we are still that dual nature.
We just aren't letting it talk
to us so much because survival
has been at stake.
So let's talk about what
happened when that went down,
the beings.
>>MARCO: Yeah,
absolutely, so according
to the esoteric tradition,
two different factions
developed on Atlantis
when it was still
attached to the
original spiritual roots
of these early Atlanteans.
And another one that was
much more materialistic
was rapidly degenerating, so
war ensued between these two
factions, which
is what triggered
the first mass migrations
outside of Atlantis.
It was, in part, caused
by geological upheavals,
so the first major
sinking of landmass
in the mid-Atlantic
Ocean but was also
triggered by this intense
warfare between these two
different factions.
>>REGINA: What was that
warfare like from the Vedas
and other documents you've
been able to discern?
>>MARCO: Well, there
is this suggestion
that this warfare involved
the use of devastating weapons
so what we would call today
weapons of mass destruction
in a way.
And so it was quite possibly
as a consequence of this war
that the first major sinking
of Atlantis occurred.
>>REGINA: Such as an
atomic explosion of sorts
but some other technology?
>>MARCO: Of sorts, and
there are some suggestions--
you mentioned the
Vedas for instance,
in the ancient Hindu text
that it was in fact the case
that weapons of mass
destruction were employed
by these different
factions so that
through some sort of
technological imbalance
in a way that we
do not necessarily
understand that
actually triggered
the first major
sinking of Atlantis.
>>REGINA: So according to what
you've been able to discern,
roughly around 35,000 years ago?
Then culture started
receding itself.
Now, let me look through this.
You call it something like this
great vast period, I think,
after the second
destruction was it?
Long period of time there's
nothing, can't find anything.
Now, timing is always
the most difficult part
of all of these things.
So what happened then at
that 35,000-year mark,
after the-- first, the top
part broke off and sunk.
Now, you have the
middle Atlantean period,
which still had very
sophisticated technology
and beautiful technology.
So let's talk about
how that was receded.
>>MARCO: Yeah, so that's
the time period that
lasted for over 20,000 years,
and as you say, immediately
after the first
Atlantean cataclysm,
there was sort of a hiatus
in a way in which we do not
have many records.
So it's as if Atlantean
civilization receded or almost
went back to a stage of
much lesser development
and sophistication.
But it's also a time in which
Atlantean civilization spread
to other parts of the world.
There is evidence
around that time,
a second center
of a civilization
had developed in Central Asia,
in the region of the Gobi
Desert in particular,
that was, in a way,
antagonistic to the original
Atlantic or mid-Atlantic center
of Atlantean civilization.
And so you have these
two same factions
that were responsible for the
first downfall of Atlantis,
around 35,000 BC that continued,
in a way, this struggle,
this warfare but from
two different centers.
So on the one hand, you
still had an Atlantic center
located on what was left
of the Atlantean landmass
in the mid-Atlantic
Ocean, but then
you also had a new
center of civilization
established in Central Asia.
And that this two
culture, which by the way,
this Asian center was what
in the Theosophical doctrine
was called the center
of Aryan humanity--
>>REGINA: Aryan, yes.
>>MARCO: --meaning
the fifth world race.
>>REGINA: India, out of
India, and yes, and--
>>MARCO: Correct.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MARCO: Correct, and
so you have to imagine,
you have to picture
this struggle
between the remnants of
Atlantis, which in time, were
also able to reestablish a new
Atlantean civilization, what
they call the second Atlantean
empire and this new Aryan
humanity that detached itself
from the main body of Atlantean
humanity to give rise to
a wholly new civilization
in Central Asia.
>>REGINA: And now, let's
for just one moment,
we're going to just
go back and finish up
the story of the North because
we went there and didn't finish
it.
And that is the more spiritually
oriented, highly knowledgeable,
understanding laws of
nature, harmony with nature,
and so forth, those people were
able to emigrate elsewhere,
and a lot of this happened on
the Western coast of the UK,
and even going up somewhat
into Scandinavia, right?
So that knowledge was
kept, and in some circles,
in Freddy Silva's
work, for example,
is called the Tuatha de Danaan,
who ultimately later became
the druids as some knowledge is
lost but still much retained.
So you have that knowledge
still going both directions,
and being maintained,
and probably
taken to many other places
around the world as well,
right?
So that knowledge still exists.
Now we have the re-establishment
from the remnants.
Technology has been in a
sense has overtaken wisdom
and spirituality by this
time, too, in a sense,
and you go into this
destruction at 35,000 years.
Now, it starts reestablishing
with some of those higher
principles again, right?
>>MARCO: Yes, so there is the
suggestion that at that time,
you had once again the
incarnation of some spiritual
beings--
>>REGINA: Same beings.
>>MARCO: --who, they were
called some spiritual guides
of mankind.
In the Hindu tradition
for instance,
the manu of that age that
preincarnated on Earth in order
to help guide humanity
towards the path of survival,
spiritual evolution
after the cataclysm
or the first Atlantean period.
But then you see
again a repetition.
So you see how history
is cyclical again--
>>REGINA: And the
same kind of beings
described the same way show up
all over, all over the planet
after cataclysm.
And indigenous peoples
all over the world
talk about these beings, these
magnificent, advanced beings
who came and helped them get
back on their feet again.
So the same thing was
happening in Atlantis,
and so now what kind of life
from what you've seen emerges?
And I'm going to
share with you a piece
from a couple of regressions
with Dolores Cannon
and what I saw from
that era, which
was at the very, very, very,
very end, very unpleasant end,
I might add.
>>MARCO: Yeah, so it
was towards the end
of that second Atlantean
period that another cataclysm
occurred.
Now, in this specific case,
and we're talking about a time
around 13,000 years
ago, around 11,000 BC,
there is a suggestion that this
cataclysm had a cosmic origin.
It was probably the
impact of a comet,
like something completely
beyond the control of the people
that existed at the time.
But it had the effect on
one hand of once again,
causing this
civilization to collapse,
to go back to a much
lesser stage of evolution
and sophistication.
It caused a further exodus,
a migration from Atlantis
to other lands.
>>REGINA: Yes, large exodus.
>>MARCO: Yes.
>>REGINA: Because the
destabilization of the land
was taking place over such
a long period of time,
it was known this was
coming, this seismic
or whatever activity
you want to call it.
You diagram it in
the book actually.
So what I've been
trying to figure out
all these years is after
having this experience, totally
unexpected regression
experience with Dolores Cannon,
I ended up right in
the middle of that.
And I was one who was still
among those who could work well
with the mind, and
we were working
with the mind and our
energies to subdue
the mounting disruption
that was going to happen.
And everyone knew of it.
This wasn't a secret.
Many had already left.
Some were still
working with it because
of the concern for the loss
of knowledge, technology,
and everything once again
because that's painful, right?
And what we were
not aware of is--
we'd only heard
rumors of the ones
in the city who were working
with the high technology.
This is pyramidal,
crystalline, and other types
of very advanced
focused technologies,
and our understanding
was they were
trying to play god and mess
things up, and it blew.
When I was able to speak
with my own group of beings
later on in that, they
said, no, you misunderstood
because you were myopic.
Doing just what you did, you
didn't have full knowledge
of what they were doing.
They were doing the same
thing but with technology.
I think this has
been misinterpreted
and misunderstood
historically unless I'm
in the wrong destruction,
unless it was the first,
and I don't know
which one it was.
I've never known
I just know what Earth
life was like then,
which was pretty
sophisticated and magnificent
on many, many levels.
But when that went down, these
other people with technology
were trying to subdue
it the same as we were.
No one wanted to see this
land mass loss again.
And what I also
noticed is that there
were beings from other places.
You could see little
spaceships in near atmosphere.
They were working
with humans, too.
Everyone was trying
to stop this,
and there was nothing
that was going to stop it.
And so with the ramping
up of that technology that
was used from the city center,
it became a very violent end,
and I remember
everything blowing.
It was horrible.
I mean, fish were boiling, and
the thing I said to Dolores,
oh my god, we're going to
sleep for a very long time.
We've lost everything.
Now, that's the
part you write about
in the book is this long
fallow period, right?
>>MARCO: Yeah.
Yeah, it really sounds like it
was almost a second chance that
was given to mankind after
the first Atlantean cataclysm,
after this time of decadence.
>>REGINA: And they
did well with it.
They were using technologies
in a beautiful way.
It wasn't all corrupt,
but then again, those
are from my prospectus.
>>MARCO: Yeah, and
I think this is
a pre- what happened during this
second Atlantean period, when
Atlantean civilization
itself transitioned
from a mastery of water.
In the esoteric tradition
it's called the life force,
so certain things that
came naturally, in a way,
to the Atlanteans because
of their spiritual
and mental faculties
in earlier times
that did not require technology.
It transitioned towards
a technological type
of civilization, and technology
was almost a development
that was required in order to
compensate for the loss of some
of these spiritual faculties.
>>REGINA: Exactly, and even
though it was high technology
and even though it was used
for beautiful purpose in terms
of healing, and growing,
and so forth, that
is step down from
what was originally
done where you could just use
the mind, pretty much used
the mind, and work with soils,
and work with elements, and so
forth with mind only.
So here we have it stepped
down, still lovely, way
beyond where we are now.
So what do you think?
What was the lesson then?
Was it still trying to
assist humanity or suggest
to humanity, let go
of the technology
and go back into
the true knowledge?
Do you think that's what was
attempting to express itself?
>>MARCO: I think
the same forces are
the caused the first destruction
in the first fall of Atlantis,
so they were still
at work in a way.
So for a time, yes, Atlantean
civilization did resurrect.
In a way, it also went back
to the original purity,
but then the same forces, same
materialistic forces came back.
And that's what pre-led
towards the second cataclysm,
the second fall of Atlantis.
>>REGINA: OK, so that was then
about 13,000 years ago, right?
>>MARCO: Yes.
>>REGINA: So then the
fall or the Great Deluge
that Plato recounted in
his day, when was that?
>>MARCO: Well, there were many.
Plato himself says there were
many destructions of humanity
by fire and water, will
you remember the last one?
>>REGINA: Fire and water, yes.
>>MARCO: The cataclysm
that Plato alludes to
is probably this last Atlantean
cataclysm that ended up
with the sinking of the largest
portion of the Atlantean
landmass, but there
were certainly others
before that, which are
recorded in a number
of both esoteric and
historical traditions.
So what Plato describes
is a very specific point
in time in human
history, which is
a call that use a more
scientific language,
the Younger Dryas cataclysm.
So this is a time--
>>REGINA: 11,600 years ago.
>>MARCO: Right, correct.
This is a time around at
the end of the last Ice Age,
and now, interestingly,
scientists
are coming up with
the idea that this
was in fact a dual cataclysm.
There was probably an
initial first cometary impact
at the beginning of
the Younger Dryas,
around 13,000 years ago, which
was followed by a second impact
around 1,500 years later,
which remarkably points
to the same date given
by Plato around 9,600
BC for the final sinking
and destruction of Atlantis.
>>REGINA: Now,
again, at this time,
there were people who were able
to get out, take knowledge out.
I mean, technology was lost.
Basically, technology
was lost except for those
who still had the spiritual,
mental technologies.
And so we had
civilization developing.
You write here, at
that time, 16,000 BC
seemed to have been an important
time in "development," right?
And you have here, in
Egypt, in South America,
but also Sardinia where we went
on an adventure here at Gaia,
and looking at the Nuraghe
and such of that area,
and psychically tuning
in to what had happened
in these places at that time.
So tell us what about 1,600
BC was really important
for distribution of that
knowledge and these people.
>>MARCO: Yeah, that
actually, when you
think about the
fall of Atlantis,
this was not a point
in time episode.
It took thousands of years.
>>REGINA: Long,
long period of time.
>>MARCO: There was a
process during which
Atlantean civilization and
culture spread to other lands
around the world.
So towards that time,
Atlantean civilization
did, in a way, become almost
like a colonial type of society
because of geological
instability
in the mid-Atlantic ocean.
>>REGINA: Yes,
very unstable, yes.
>>MARCO: Massive
migrations of people
were triggered from that
mid-Atlantic homeland
towards both the old
world and the new world,
where civilizations
were established,
modeled on that of the
motherland, the model
on the civilization of Atlantis.
So that's the time
when the first step
pre-dynastic
Egyptian civilization
appeared in Egypt, some of the
earliest megalithic monuments
in the European continent
that were constructed.
You have a great surge of
construction in South America,
for instance.
Think of these incredible
megalithic ruins
of Peru and Bolivia.
These are all relics from that
time, from what we call the--
>>REGINA: And
pyramids everywhere.
It could be a ziggurat,
which has a different purpose
than a smooth side.
Everywhere, whether it's
in Egypt or South America,
you can have smooth sides,
ziggurats, stepped pyramids,
and the like.
So this was that same
technology from Atlantis
that had been brought
into these other regions
through those who emigrated.
>>MARCO: Yes, yes, so they
spread their technology,
their science, and
that's the reason
why you find the same symbols
pretty much all over the world,
so starting from the pyramid.
I do believe that
the pyramid, it
might originally have had some
functional purpose, right.
But then it became a symbol as
well of the cosmic mountain,
and so that's the
reason why we find it
in so many different
places around the world.
And many of these
monuments were actually
built on very specific points
on the Earth's surface,
characterized by certain
levels of terrestrial energy,
so particular
hotspots of activity--
>>REGINA: Ley
lines and so forth.
>>MARCO: Yes, these type
of things like ley lines,
telluric current--
>>REGINA: Telluric, yes.
>>MARCO: --and so you have this
idea that these people were
really engaged in creating a
world grid of ancient sites,
locating pyramids and megalithic
monuments, specific places,
specific points of
the Earth's surface
in order to produce some
sorts of effects that
have to do with the
advancement of consciousness,
the advancement of knowledge.
There's also the suggestion
that this global network
may have served the purpose
of generating energy as well.
>>REGINA: I was going to bring
that up next, absolutely,
energy generators,
and many, many people
who've been in regressed states
have seen that, that these
were energy generators.
And for the very
earliest people that
used them, perhaps
generating their own personal
or sustaining their own
personal energies as well.
And so here you
have things, then
things start getting
bastardized where
you start building a
pyramid because hey,
they were in the hot spots of
the great cultures of the day.
But it reminds me of more
like the Mayan cultures
where you have these
awful blood sacrifices
at the feet of these amazing
pyramids, who were not
necessarily built by them.
They were built far,
far, far in advance,
and all they have is a distant
memory of the powerful beings
that once occupied it.
And then it descends
into something
as barbaric as
sacrificing someone
to serve that
intelligence force,
so this is a lowering
of consciousness.
So how does that work with all
of this, the waves of rising
and lowering consciousness?
>>MARCO: Well, the purpose
of many of these structures
was no longer
understood, and that's
why some practices
like human sacrifices
just degenerated over time.
It was because, for
instance, if you
think about the Maya
pyramids and many
of these structures clearly
built in specific hotspots,
there might have
been still a memory
of some of the
scientific practices that
were performed at these places.
They might have had to do
with the release of energy
at these spots, but in
the degenerated practices
of later cultures that took
the form of human sacrifice, so
the real meaning of
many of these rituals
or operations that were
conducted at these places,
it was lost.
>>REGINA: That's why
it gets so confusing,
when people are reading
history, the Mayans built
these pyramids, and they have
them with blood dripping down
the sides of their altars.
And it's like, that doesn't
quite make sense to me,
that those people built those.
And this is true
all over the world.
We have these same
kinds of stories
as we have a degeneration
of knowledge, memory,
and consciousness.
And so what I'd like to ask you
now, the pictures in your book
are amazing.
You've been all over the place.
And you took some
fabulous photos,
and you're in them, a lot of
selfies at a long distance.
So let me ask you, with this
incredible curiosity of yours,
and I would even
speculate-- it's not
for me to do that-- you may
well very well have been one
of those people there long ago
that are trying to bring back
an understanding of what can
be and what has gone wrong.
Which of the places you've
been to blew your mind
and was far more than you ever
expected when you went there?
>>MARCO: I think I had this very
strong feeling of connection
in Egypt.
Again, I think there
is something special
about the temples of Egypt
or the pyramids there.
You can still feel the
presence in a way of that very
ancient civilization.
They have these very strong
feeling, particularly
at Luxor in Egypt like
this magnificent temple
in ancient Thebes
because not only
there is evidence that many
of the temples, the megaliths
there may actually date back
to much earlier than the dates
at the beginning--
>>REGINA: Well, Robert
Schoch said privately--
I probably shouldn't say it
because then it's not private,
but--
I mean, he has said
privately, he can't publicly
speak of what his
first impressions
of the Great Pyramid were,
but he told another person
that his first
impression is this
could be 100,000 years old.
But then you have to
go find the evidence,
and you have to stay within
the framework of that
for whatever you're
going to do academically.
Of course, that's natural.
You don't want to
be made fun of.
You want to lose tenure,
but then John Anthony
West, at least 35,000 years.
So what's your perception?
>>MARCO: Well, to me,
what is impressive is also
the continuity.
So if you look at many
of these buildings, many
of these structures,
I do believe
that some of these,
they can go back
to at least the
neo-Atlantean periods, over
10,000 years ago, immediately
after the last terrestrial
cataclysm.
But what is remarkable
is the continuity
because that civilization
did not stop.
These are places that
continue to be rebuilt.
They continue to
be sacred places.
So even if you look
at a site like Giza,
you actually find
a stratification
of different cultures.
The origins of the site may
be well over 10,000 years old,
but then multiple
different civilizations,
including the
dynastic Egyptians,
they kept building
on top of that.
They continued, in a
way, this project so
that this great project that
was started during the Atlantean
period did not
just stop there, it
continued for thousands
and thousands of years.
There is evidence.
This project continues to
the modern day in a way,
and always, there
were people that
kept the fire alive in a certain
way, this fire of Atlantean
civilization.
So that's why I think it's even
more important that we, today,
rediscover those roots because
that can really bring forth
a new Renaissance, a rediscovery
of the Atlantean past.
>>REGINA: What for you
on a personal level
have you learned that really
has kind of changed where
you thought you would go
with this whole endeavor,
with this story,
and the development,
and the research of it?
What has changed in you?
And I want to know then what
you're going to be doing next.
>>MARCO: Well, to
me is it's really
the search for the
remnants of that past.
As you also mentioned
before, I do believe--
>>REGINA: The spiritual,
psycho spiritual, mental?
>>MARCO: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MARCO: The records
of that time, I really
do believe that
before, particularly
before the last cataclysm,
people who had foreknowledge
of the events that
were going to happen,
they created time capsules.
They concealed part
of that knowledge,
so it could be rediscovered
for the benefit
of a future humanity.
So you come to a
realization that many of us
nowadays are tasked with the
rediscovery of that knowledge.
You're rediscovering
those time capsules.
We're rediscovering
that ancient knowledge
for the benefit
of modern humanity
so that we do not repeat the
same mistakes of the past
and we don't go down
the same way that led
to the downfall of Atlantis.
>>REGINA: Beautifully said.
If we take into consideration
as the Hermetics would say,
for example, that early,
early, early Egypt
was concurrent with Atlantis.
As you said, this
is even evidenced.
So we have then the survival of
great amounts of hieroglyphics
and such, and it was told to
me one time that if humans
learned how to really read it--
and there are those
being born and those
that exist now who are learning
how to actually, really read
it, not just Budge's work, but
way beyond that-- that that
is going to tell
us of our history.
Do you believe
there's truth in that?
>>MARCO: Yeah, yeah,
I do believe that.
I think particularly with
hieroglyphic writing,
there's a literal interpretation
and a symbolic interpretation.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>MARCO: I think
we have focused too
much on the literal
interpretation,
so we can read hieroglyphs.
But we do not necessarily
understand them, meaning that--
>>REGINA: We don't
understand them yet.
That's what I was told.
If some people take it
upon them in this lifetime
to truly understand
them, the answers
we're looking for
regarding Atlantis
and the laws of
nature, et cetera,
are all right there for us.
They're just
sitting right there.
>>MARCO: Yeah, and
there is this idea,
there has always been
that esoteric knowledge,
true esoteric knowledge at least
cannot be conveyed with words
or with the language of logic.
That's exactly the purpose
of hieroglyphic writing,
what to convey, a
deeper level of meaning.
So if we only stick to the
literal interpretation of that,
we are never going to
really get to the core
of the esoteric meaning
of the spiritual truths
that these people try
to communicate to us.
>>REGINA: Absolutely, and
finally, yeah, we're just about
out of time.
Finally, Edgar Cayce
had said that there
would come a time
in the near future
where Atlantis would rise again.
And it seemed like he was
speaking quite literally.
We still have in the
Azores Mount Picos
for example, little tiny
remnants of Atlantis
that exist, but said that
it would be rising again.
What do you take that to mean?
>>MARCO: Well, I think
that time is now.
Now, I don't know if
we have necessarily
to take it literally.
I think one needs to
think about what--
>>REGINA: Is it the
knowledge, the spirit--
>>MARCO: Right, right,
that's the way I see it.
I see it much more as a
Renaissance of Atlantean
knowledge, of Atlantean
spirituality in a way that
is going to be triggered by
rediscovery of the Atlantean
past, very much in the same
way as during the 15th,
the 16th century, a rediscovered
classical civilization
of Greece and Rome was what
triggered the Renaissance,
this incredible surge of human
culture and civilization.
I do think we're at the edge
of a very similar rediscovery,
that the rediscovery
of the Atlantean past
is going to really bring forth
a new golden age for mankind.
>>REGINA: Well, thank you.
Thank you for that.
You have a very elegant mind.
I'm very, very pleased
to be sitting here
with you because you're not
just turning over stones,
you're also esoterically
curious and courageous.
And you've put this all
together in your book,
and you've taken it even
further in terms of conversation
with me.
And I'm very happy to
have been part of it
because you had such clarity
and elegance of thought
to all of these things
we're so interested in.
Thank you, Marco.
>>MARCO: Thank you so much.
It's been a pleasure.
>>REGINA: Again, the
name of Marco's book
is "Empires of
Atlantis," which you can
find through major booksellers.
You can also visit his
site at MarcoVigato.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]